**INTRODUCTION TO MACHINE LEARNING by JIAJIE LIM **

  “We are drowning in information but starved for knowledge” – John Naisbitt. (John Naisbitt- Quotes, n.d.) This is a quote that we can all identify as we are entering the era of big data. We have too much information to choose from but which provide true knowledge. The deluge of data calls for automated methods of analysis of data, in which machine learning provides. Machine learning is about extracting knowledge from data. It focuses on analyzing and interpreting patterns and structures in data to enable learning reasoning and decision making outside of human interaction. The applications of machine learning methods have in recent years become ubiquitous in everyday life. From automatic recommendations of which movies to watch, to what products to buy or what food to order, to a personalized online music playlist, and recognizing people in a photo, many modern websites and devices have machine learning algorithms in their core. 

  There are many kinds of problems that machine learning can solve. The most successful kinds of machine learning algorithms are those that automate the decision-making process by generalizing from known examples. In this setting, which is known as supervised learning, the user provides the algorithm with pairs of inputs and desired outputs, and the algorithm will find a way to produce the desired output given an input. In particular, the algorithm is able to create an output for an input it has never seen before without any help from a human. 

  There are two major types of supervised machine learning problems which include regression and classification. For regression tasks, it is widely used for predicting a continuous number. For example, predicting a person’s annual income based on their education level, age, and the city they are living in. When predicting income, the predicted value is an amount and can be any number in a given range. Another example of a regression task would be estimating the monthly and seasonal rainfall of a city. On the other hand, in classification, the goal is to predict the class label, which is a choice from a predefined list of possibilities. Classification can be separated into binary classification or multiclass classification. Binary classification is to separate our data into two classes while multiclass classification is classification between more than two classes. Classifying emails as either ‘spam’ or ‘not spam’ in an example of the binary classification problem. 

  On the contrary, the unsupervised learning algorithm is another type of algorithm, in which only the input data is known, and no known output data is given. In general, it is usually harder to understand and evaluate since we have little to no information about the data, or the outcomes to be expected. Examples of unsupervised learning include separating customers into groups with similar preferences. We were given a set of customer records and would want to identify which customers are similar and whether there are groups of customers with similar preferences such as parents, kids or gamers. Because we do not know in advance what those groups might be, or how many there are, we have no known outputs. 

  Dimensionality reduction and clustering are the most widely used unsupervised machine learning techniques. Dimensionality reduction takes a high-dimensional representation of data, consisting of many features, and finds a new way to represent the data that summarizes the essential characteristics with a fewer feature. Clustering algorithms, on the other hand, partition data into distinct groups of similar items. For instance, we consider the example of uploading photos to a social media application. To allow the application to group together pictures that show the same person, a sensible approach would be to extract all the faces in the album and separate them into groups of faces that look similar. 

  In retrospect, it typically depends on factors that are related to the structure and the volume of the data when making a decision in choosing either a supervised or unsupervised machine learning algorithms. Typically, we will use both types of methods to build predictive data models that help stakeholders in making better decisions. 


**References**
37 Mind Blowing YouTube Facts, Figures and Statistics. (2018, 8 4). Retrieved from MerchDope.
Fowler, D. S. (2018, 02 20). How Many Websites Are There In The World. Retrieved from Tek Eye: https://tekeye.uk/computing/how-many-websites-are-there
John Naisbitt- Quotes. (n.d.). Retrieved from goodreads: https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/33961-we-are-drowning-in-information-but-starved-for-knowledge


